{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f10\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-458317174
\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698693\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}
\f2\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f10\fbias0 \fi-360\li7200
\jclisttab\tx7200\lin7200 }{\listname ;}\listid52048227}{\list\listtemplateid-753117456\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}
\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713
\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li6480
\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listname ;}\listid544022866}{\list\listtemplateid-527789872\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}
\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713
\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li6480
\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listname ;}\listid1243177023}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid544022866\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid52048227\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid1243177023\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid346265\rsid2384101\rsid5906998\rsid6118169\rsid6699346\rsid10095373\rsid10386515\rsid11430459\rsid12080629\rsid12664768\rsid14441697\rsid15879719}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6113;}{\info{\title GRAMENE SAB REPORT}
{\author Georgia Davis}{\operator Pankaj Jaiswal}{\creatim\yr2005\mo4\dy4\hr9\min14}{\revtim\yr2005\mo4\dy4\hr9\min14}{\printim\yr2005\mo3\dy22\hr18\min3}{\version2}{\edmins8}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1284}{\nofchars7323}{\*\company UMC-Agronomy}
{\nofcharsws8590}{\vern24699}}{\*\userprops {\propname _AdHocReviewCycleID}\proptype3{\staticval -1640019947}{\propname _EmailSubject}\proptype30{\staticval Gramene SAB}{\propname _AuthorEmail}\proptype30{\staticval DavisGe@missouri.edu}{\propname _Author
EmailDisplayName}\proptype30{\staticval Davis, Georgia}{\propname _ReviewingToolsShownOnce}\proptype30{\staticval }}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180
\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nojkernpunct\rsidroot6699346 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6118169 GRAMENE SAB REPORT
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6118169 
\par }{\i\insrsid6118169 Advisory board members:
\par }{\insrsid6118169 Georgia Davis
\par David Marshall
\par Anna McClung
\par John Mullet (unable to attend)
\par James Oard
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid6118169 General recommendations and feedback:
\par }{\insrsid6118169 The }{\insrsid11430459 advisory}{\insrsid6118169  is impressed with the amount of work that has been accomplished over the past year. }{\insrsid12664768 
We also want to applaud the effort of the Gramene group in obtaining user feedback and in applying this to improve the website.  The groups strong understanding of the need for evolution of the database and its role }{\insrsid11430459 in }{
\insrsid12664768 facilitating the linkage between gene and phenotype will ensure its success.}{\insrsid6118169 
 In particular the manual entry of QTL information from the rice literature will be very important in applying the rice genome sequencing resource toward understanding of function and in dissection of phenotypes in rice.  }{\insrsid12664768 
We suggest that Level II annotations be complete}{\insrsid11430459 d}{\insrsid12664768  first for common populations over years and locations, specifically IR64 x Azucena DH lines, Nipponbare x Kasalah and }{\i\insrsid12664768\charrsid12664768 
Oryza rufipogon}{\insrsid12664768  x different }{\i\insrsid12664768\charrsid12664768 O. sativa}{\insrsid12664768  parents.  Furthermore, a tabular summ
ary to assist users in defining QTL of interest to them including mapping method, population size, years, locations, LOD scores, additive effects, R}{\super\insrsid12664768\charrsid12664768 2}{\insrsid12664768 , G X E, epistasis, etc. would be useful. }{
\insrsid6118169 
\par }{\insrsid12664768 
\par }{\insrsid6118169 Much of the focus of the past year was on migrating the database back-end to Oracle to allow better synchrony with the ENSEMBL browser.  We believe this time was well spent and will benefit the rice community.  }{\insrsid6699346 The }{
\insrsid2384101 advisory}{\insrsid6699346  recognizes the importance of updating, improving, and validating information within Gramene and
 the time commitment this entails.  We believe that Gramene has a real opportunity to get the community using GO.  This is a far more useful resource than much of the community realizes and Gramene should be commended for their efforts in providing access
 and integration of this information to the community.}{\insrsid6118169 
\par }{\insrsid6699346 
\par We suggest that a perspectives article should be submitted this year to Plant Physiology highlighting the features of Gramene and the features that will be implemented in the next few months.  This wil
l bring more users to Gramene and may provide additional community feedback to the group.
\par 
\par Many of the modules within Gramene contain tutorials that we found very useful.  We encourage you to provide this for all of the modules}{\insrsid5906998 .  The left-hand window in th
e ontology tutorial that lets you see where you are is a particularly useful feature that would be nice to extend to other tutorials.}{\insrsid6699346 
\par }{\insrsid5906998 
\par }{\insrsid6118169 With completion of the rice genome sequence attention in the rice community is logically shifted toward functional analys
is of the genes and predicted genes.  This functional analysis is likely to come from both forward and reverse genetic analysis.  In addition the research teams working on these problems are likely to include a wide array of disciplines including genetici
sts, molecular biologists, bioinformaticians, physiologists, and plant }{\insrsid5906998 breeders.  In many of these cas}{\insrsid6118169 es, the traits under study will be quantitative and the underlying genes unknown.  The current }{\insrsid14441697 
Gramene}{\insrsid6118169  access to align QTL with sequence information is cumbersome and requires more knowledge of the database structure than needed.  We suggest that the QTL positions should be }{\insrsid5906998 l}{\insrsid6118169 
inked directly to the concensus map or the sequence map.  While we understand that some of the QTL studies have lower resolution than o
thers, we believe that this distinction and an understanding of its implications are the responsibility of the database user rather than that of the database curators.  
\par }{\insrsid5906998 
\par We also suggest that Gramene and its collaborators should suggest to journals publish}{\insrsid12080629 ing}{\insrsid5906998  QTL }{\insrsid12080629 studies}{\insrsid5906998 
 that a minimum information set on how the data was analyzed, a table of results, and the underlying trait data be submitted to Gramene as a condition of manuscript acceptance according to the model of GenBank submission of sequence data.
\par }{\insrsid6118169 
\par We recognize the potential value and impact of the Maize Diversity Module and suggest that the Gramene team consider creation of a similar module for rice in future activities and for other grasses as time and funding permit.}{\insrsid15879719 
  We feel that regardless of where this data is housed for each species there must be an individual to serve as a clearing house for information for each species.}{\insrsid6118169 
\par }{\insrsid15879719 
\par }{\insrsid6118169 There is a tremendous amount of information on the Gramene website that is useful to many user groups. We commend your effor
ts to try to help breeders and others to better utilize this valuable resource. Over the next 2-5 years, there will be a major change in how rice breeding is done with molecular technology finally filtering into the breeding programs. With the help of the
 USDA CSREES Coordinated Agricultural Project (CAP) grant and others, the rice breeding community will make a giant leap forward.  Gramene like all of the major crop databases is likely to have a }{\insrsid5906998 clientele}{\insrsid6118169 
 with varied levels of sophistication in use of the 
database.  This underscores the need for ease of access to the types of data that are likely to be desired by the user group. Many of the members of the US rice breeding community at this time would probably fall}{\insrsid5906998 
 within the user categories of }{\insrsid6118169 individuals that have difficulty accessing information on the first try and do not return. We believe that the full utility of the Gramene data }{\insrsid12080629 by the breeding community }{
\insrsid6118169 relies on }{\insrsid12080629 eas}{\insrsid6118169 y access}{\insrsid12080629  to}{\insrsid6118169  information in the database.  We see the solution to this issue as partly 
educational and partly design.  First, we believe Gramene short courses should be ROUTINELY offered in conjunction with major meetings like PAG and American Society of Agronomy.  Perhaps another option would be the possibility of LiveWeb teaching like tha
t of the SAS Institute. As part of the CAP project, one or two workshops will be offered in 2005. We recommend you hold a Gramene workshop at the first one in early June 2005 at Stuttgart, AR.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid5906998 We suggest that the group compile a list of the queries they fe
el will be most used by the community in the next year as well as reviewing the usage statistics for the database to determine what are currently the most frequently used queries.  We feel strongly that these queries should be transparent and expeditious.
  We suggest that all queries on the above list should be redesigned to require a minimum of three mouse clic}{\insrsid12080629 ks to retrieve the end result.  Along these lines, an option for new users might be development of a \'93Gramene Simplified\'94
 view accessible as a button on the front page.  Examples of content underlying this view might be: 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 1.\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 
Overview of Gramene in bullet fashion \endash  the same items as your buttons on the home page but using straight forward terms. These should be defined on this page with links to more information. The idea is to overcome the user\rquote 
s fear as they go through the website. For example:
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\insrsid12080629 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx1440\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls2\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 Maps \endash 
 several rice maps, corn, barley, etc
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\insrsid12080629 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Markers \endash  microsaellites, RFLP, AFLP, etc
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\insrsid12080629 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Traits \endash  plant morphology, agronomic, biotic and abiotic stresses, etc
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\insrsid12080629 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}Genes \endash  etc
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 2.\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 
A quick look at a rice map that one can click through in this fashion just to give and example of what information is available.  For example:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx1440\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\ilvl1\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 12 chromosomes
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}overlay locations on chromosomes for some examples of key traits
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 i.\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-180\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx2160\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\ilvl2\adjustright\rin0\lin2160\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 first some disease res
istance genes
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 ii.\tab}then some plant morphology genes
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 iii.\tab}then some yield components
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 iv.\tab}take on of these maps with disease resistance genes (for example) and overlay SSR markers
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 v.\tab}then overlay RFLP markers
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 vi.\tab}Then overlay ests, etc
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 vii.\tab}Then show a section of a rice map showing synteny with another crops chromosome
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 3.\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 
The slide that Pankaj (or Liang) showed at the Gramene meeting which showed the ests, markers, chromosome, proteins, etc would be a great one to explain what all is available in gramene
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 4.\tab}A decision tree to facilitate navigation would also be beneficial and perhaps critical to increasing the comfort level of novice users.  For example:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 a.\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx1440\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\ilvl1\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12080629 
Do you want to search for markers, genes, proteins, chromosomes, maps, traits, literature, etc
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 b.\tab}Then within each of these another set of questions
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\insrsid12080629 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 c.\tab}This would not have to be all inclusive of your database but would at least facilitate moving through the website
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12664768 {\insrsid12664768 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12080629 {\insrsid12664768 We }{\insrsid2384101 also }{\insrsid12664768 
encourage Gramene to provide input to the Rice CAP Project to facilitate easy integration of information in their database to Gramene.}{\insrsid12080629 
\par }{\insrsid12664768 
\par }{\insrsid12080629 Finally the group feels that there are a few instances where terminology may be confusing to the community.  For example \'93mutants\'94 implies }{\insrsid2384101 a}{\insrsid12080629  the phenotype}{\insrsid2384101 
 that is a result of a mutation, h}{\insrsid12080629 owever, it appears to be used to mean major genes and genetic mutations.  The root and leaves metaphor in the ontology tutorial with the root at the top spawning leaves below goes against the usual }{
\insrsid12664768 plant stature.}{\insrsid12080629 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid12080629 
\par }{\insrsid6118169 
\par }}
